Abstract

The world's population growth rate peaked at slightly over 2 percent a year in the late 1960s and m 1986 is down to 1.7 percent and falling. Annual numbers added continue to mount because these rates apply to a very large base, 4.9 billion in 1986, but will peak at 89 million a year in the late 1990s and than also taper off until world population stabilizes in the last decade of the 21st century at about 10.2 billion, according to current United Nations medium variant projections. Close to 95 percent of this growth is occurring in the less developed countries (LDCs) of Africa, Asia (minus Japan), and Latin America, now comprising 76 percent of world population. LDC fertility rates are declining, except in sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Latin America and South Asia, but most have far to go t} reach the replacement level of 2.1 births per woman, although China, the world's population leader at 1 05 billion in 1986, reached that level in 1984. Fertility is below replacement in virtually all more developed countries and a few are already experiencing natural decrease (fewer births than deaths). For LDCs, large numbers will be added before stabilization even  after attainment of replacement level fertility because of the demographic momentum built into their large and  young population bases. this complicates efforts to bridge gaps in raving standards between LDCs and industrialized countries. From a new aerate about whether rapid population growth deters or stimulates economic growth a more integrated view sees efforts to slow population growth and other development efforts to improve people's health and education, upgrade women's status, etc., as complementary.
Most effective m the increased contraceptive prevalence and fertility declines seen in many LDCs has been 'he combination of organized programs to increase access to family planning information end supplies with socioeconomic development that enhances the desire for smaller families.

